doc/manualGrading.md, before:

# Manual Grading

PrairieLearn supports manual grading of questions by downloading a CSV file with student answers and uploading a CSV file with question scores (or whole assessment scores) and optional per-question feedback. There is not currently an online web interface for manual grading.


## Configuring a question for maual grading

The [`info.json` file](question.md#question-infojson) in the question should be set for manual grading:
```json
{
    "uuid": "cbf5cbf2-6458-4f13-a418-aa4d2b1093ff",
    "gradingMethod": "Manual",
    "singleVariant": true,
    ...
}
```

Manually-graded questions allow students to "Save" answers, but they don't have a "Save & Grade" button. Instead, the student just saves answers as many times as they want, and all of their submitted answers are stored. It is recommended to also mark manually-graded questions as `"singleVariant": true` so that students are only given a single random variant, even on Homework assessments.

Any [elements](elements/) can be used in the [`question.html`](question.md#question-questionhtml) to write manually graded questions. All of the student input will be saved and available for manual grading, including `pl-string-input`, `pl-file-editor`, `pl-file-upload`, etc.

To show manual feedback the `question.html` file should contain an element to display the feedback next to student submissions. A basic template for this is:
```html
<pl-submission-panel>
  {{#feedback.manual}}
  <p>Feedback from course staff:</p>
  <markdown>{{{feedback.manual}}}</markdown>
  {{/feedback.manual}}
</pl-submission-panel>
```

This example template formats the feedback as Markdown and displays a message if there was no feedback.


## Downloading the students' submitted answers

After students have completed the assessment, download the submitted answers by going to the assessment page, then the "Downloads" tab, and selecting the `<assessment>_submissions_for_manual_grading.csv` file. This looks like:
```csv
uid,qid,submission_id,params,true_answer,submitted_answer,score_perc,feedback
mwest@illinois.edu,explainMax,42983,{},{},{"ans": "returns the maximum value in the array"},,
zilles@illinois.edu,explainMax,42984,{},{},{"ans": "gives the set of largest values in the object"},,
zilles@illinois.edu,describeFibonacci,42987,{},{},{"ans": "calculates the n-th Fibonacci number"},,
```

This CSV file has two blank columns at the end, ready for the percentage score and optional feedback. The `submission_id` is an internal identifier that PrairieLearn uses to determine exactly which submitted answer is being graded. The `params` and `true_answer` columns 


## Uploading the scores and feedback

After editing the percentage score and/or feedback for each submitted answer, upload the CSV file by going to the assessment page, then the "Uploads" tab, and selecting "Upload new question scores".

Each question will have its score and/or feedback updated and the total assessment score will be recalculated. All updates are done with `credit` of 100%, so students get exactly the scores as uploaded.

If you prefer to use points rather than a percentage score, rename the `score_perc` column in the CSV file to `points`.

Commit message:

add zip download with files for manual grading

doc/manualGrading.md, after:

# Manual Grading

PrairieLearn supports manual grading of questions by downloading a CSV file with student answers and uploading a CSV file with question scores and optional per-question feedback. There is not currently an online web interface for manual grading.


## Configuring a question for maual grading

The [`info.json` file](question.md#question-infojson) in the question should be set for manual grading:
```json
{
    "uuid": "cbf5cbf2-6458-4f13-a418-aa4d2b1093ff",
    "gradingMethod": "Manual",
    "singleVariant": true,
    ...
}
```

Manually-graded questions allow students to "Save" answers, but they don't have a "Save & Grade" button. Instead, the student just saves answers as many times as they want, and all of their submitted answers are stored. It is recommended to also mark manually-graded questions as `"singleVariant": true` so that students are only given a single random variant, even on Homework assessments.

Any [elements](elements/) can be used in the [`question.html`](question.md#question-questionhtml) to write manually graded questions. All of the student input will be saved and available for manual grading, including `pl-string-input`, `pl-file-editor`, `pl-file-upload`, etc.

To show manual feedback the `question.html` file should contain an element to display the feedback next to student submissions. A basic template for this is:
```html
<pl-submission-panel>
  {{#feedback.manual}}
  <p>Feedback from course staff:</p>
  <markdown>{{{feedback.manual}}}</markdown>
  {{/feedback.manual}}
</pl-submission-panel>
```

This example template formats the feedback as Markdown.


## Downloading the students' submitted answers

After students have completed the assessment, download the submitted answers by going to the assessment page, then the "Downloads" tab, and selecting the `<assessment>_submissions_for_manual_grading.csv` file. This looks like:
```csv
uid,qid,submission_id,params,true_answer,submitted_answer,score_perc,feedback
mwest@illinois.edu,explainMax,42983,{},{},{"ans": "returns the maximum value in the array"},,
zilles@illinois.edu,explainMax,42984,{},{},{"ans": "gives the set of largest values in the object"},,
zilles@illinois.edu,describeFibonacci,42987,{},{},{"ans": "calculates the n-th Fibonacci number"},,
```

This CSV file has two blank columns at the end, ready for the percentage score and optional feedback. The `submission_id` is an internal identifier that PrairieLearn uses to determine exactly which submitted answer is being graded. The `params` and `true_answer` columns show the question data.

If the students uploaded files then you should also download `<assessment>_files_for_manual_grading.zip` from the Downloads page. The scores and feedback should still be entered into the CSV file.


## Uploading the scores and feedback

After editing the percentage score and/or feedback for each submitted answer, upload the CSV file by going to the assessment page, then the "Uploads" tab, and selecting "Upload new question scores".

Each question will have its score and/or feedback updated and the total assessment score will be recalculated. All updates are done with `credit` of 100%, so students get exactly the scores as uploaded.

If you prefer to use points rather than a percentage score, rename the `score_perc` column in the CSV file to `points`.
